Ultima goal is an excellent training
partner for goalies developing their
quickness agility balance and strength
players can practice either solo or with
the help of a coach goalie should always
be on their toes with their legs
shoulder-width apart knees bent and body
slightly crouched beginning goalies can
start by working on throwing the ball
they should practice the baseball throw
the overhand or side throw and rolling
the ball on the ground when doing the
overhand or side throw the arms should
be straight with the ball cup between
the hand and arm throwing the ball while
kneeling or sitting is great for goalie
conditioning and warmups
this also gets players familiar with
falling properly when making dive saves
ultimate goals responsiveness makes
catching the ball challenging for
players at all levels the proper way to
catch the ball above the waist is with
the fingers and thumbs of the two hands
making a W with shots below the waist
goalies will do the basket catch with
their small fingers touching with
ultimate goal in the conditioning or
shooting plane work on low saves and
bounce saves when scooping the ball bend
at the waist and knees with your arms
and legs close together and your hands
facing upward and open be sure to
protect the ball once it is caught make
high saves with Ultima goal in the
control plane be sure to practice
bringing the knee up and in front of you
as well as your hands and arms when
practicing the dive save be sure you're
on your toes step forward shoulders and
body Square to the ball drive up and
forward at an angle w catch the ball
with both hands fall to the ground and
cushion impact when landing effective
punches get the ball as far away as
possible from the center of the field
the attacking players and the goal
practice one and two hand punches with
Ultima goal in the control plane
when punching the hand should be flat
striking the ball with a flat surface of
the fingers and drive through the ball
pairing is similar to punches except you
use an open hand and fingers to guide
the ball
you